# nonparamDNAmixtures
This code is part of article "Non-Parametric Simulation of DNA Mixture Profiles from One-Person Trace Profiles" by Kai Budrikas and Klaas Slooten (2026). In this code we replicate 2-4-person DNA mixtures from PROVEDIt by pasting together several 1-person DNA profiles, but also provide some example code for simulating some mixtures for a specific set of contributors. Don't hesitate to reach out to Kai (kaib@itu.dk) in case there are any questions :-)

# Necessary software and packages:
- **R** (tested in version 4.4.1)
- **tidyverse**
- **doParallel**
- **openxlsx**
- **readxl**
- **euroformix** (installation guide given [here](https://github.com/oyvble/euroformix))

# Explanation of files
The code consists of six R files:
- **00_clean_data.R**: code for cleaning and organizing the data from PROVEDIt.
- **01_replicate_mixtures.R**: code for replicating PROVEDIt mixtures. Outputs raw mixture profiles (without applying stutter filter and analytical thresholds).
- **01_replicate_noisymixtures.R**: code for replicating the same PROVEDIt mixtures, where we take noise from all contributors. Also outputs raw mixture profiles.
- **01_replicate_mixtures_EFM.R**: code for replicating PROVEDIt mixtures with the EFM model.
- **02_apply_stutterfilter.R**: code for applying analytical thresholds from Riman et al. (2021) and a stutter filter. Also generates collections of trace-POI combinations to go through in LR calculations (by whatever software).
- **03_simulate_mixtures.R**: code for simulating mixtures for one specific case. Simulation parameters are adjustable to whatever case one wishes to simulate mixtures for.
- **helping_functions.R**: collection of functions for transforming profile data from wide (needed for DNAStatistX) to long format and vice versa.

In addition, there are six folders for data:
- **data_provedit**: single-source and mixture profiles from PROVEDIt.
- **data_provedit_cleaned**: single-source and mixture profiles, as outputted by 00_clean_data.R.
- **data_replicated**: replicate mixture profiles generated by 01_replicate_mixtures.R, 01_replicate_mixtures_EFM.R, and 02_apply_stutterfilter.R, and which are further examined in the paper. "real" represents PROVEDIt data, "mod" represents the non-parametrically replicated mixtures and "EFM" represents the mixtures replicated with EFM.
- **data_replicated_noisy**: noisy replicate mixture profiles generated by 01_replicate_noisymixtures.R
- **data_simulated**: simulated mixture profiles outputted by 03_simulate_mixtures.R
- **target_genotypes**: random genotypes of contributors from whom we simulate mixtures in 03_simulate_mixtures.R

Results obtained from DNAStatistX can be found from **LR_results**.


